Blog: 2025 in retrospect (#45)
AerynOS/dotcom: src/content/docs/blog/2026/01/2025 in retrospect/index.mdx

### Website development

The current state of our website leaves a lot to be desired. We are aware that it needs a full refresh, not only for presentation, but also to include important information as a bare minimum.

The team are looking at options such ae Zola and Hugo as alternative Static Site Generators however this is has remained as a low priority workstream for now. We are open if anyone has experience in website design and would like to work with the team to develop our website into something to be proud of.

## Distro updates

### DE and WM updates

Over the course of 2025, the team have continued to keep Gnome packaging updated whilst improving upon Cosmic through to its latest stable release. In addition, Reilly Brogan was able to get KDE Plasma packaged up, which expanded our recipe repo size by almost 50%.

All three desktop environments have proved to be stable, though it needs to be said that Cosmic overall has a way to go for true maturity.

> We also decided to include a terminal-only option in our installer, which can be used to then install Sway or Niri which are both also packaged up in our repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also decided to include a terminal-only option in our installer, which can be used to install and tweak e.g. Sway, Niri (and soon MangoWC) based custom Wayland environments almost from scratch.
```

### Installer

At the start of this year, Ikey shared initial screenshots of a GUI based installer that would eventually replace our text based installer as the primary installation method. With Ikey stepping back from the project, the development of this GUI installer took a back seat to allow the team to focus on higher-priority items such as infra.

Recently, one of our new staff members, Bryan Hyland, began working in the background on a new GUI based installer to eventually fill this role. 

To put it simply, the idea is to eventually use the newly developed system-model approach to define the packages that would be installed per DE / WM and also allow users to use their own custom system-model.kdl files as the basis of an installation.

**( Let's not give other projects too many ideas? )**

> One potential avenue for this could be using remote urls which would allow users to save their system-model.kdl files to an online solution such as github. The files could be kept updated over time and allow very quick reproduction of a system as the latest (including all history) of the system-model.kdl file could be accessible online.

## Sponsorship

> With Ikey stepping away earlier this year, for a period of time, it was unclear whether he would be returning or not. As the months have passed by, the prospect of his return grew less and less likely. Therefore, as covered earlier in this blog post, we are now in the latter stages of formally retiring Ikey from the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Ikey stepping away earlier this year, for a period of time, it was unclear whether he would be returning or not. As the months passed by, the prospect of his return grew less and less likely. Therefore, as covered earlier in this blog post, we are now in the latter stages of formally retiring Ikey from the project.
```

As mentioned previously, at the start of this year, the sponsorship was set up in such a way that all funds were sent directly to Ikey in order to be enable him to afford to spend time working on the project and its underpinnings.

However, in light of Ikey's continued absence, the team has taken control of the AerynOS Ko-fi account and redirected the funds from it so they can be used to cover ongoing project running costs.

All other references to sponsorship routes have been removed, leaving Ko-fi as our only official sponsorship medium.

Due to the way Ko-fi sponsorships work, at the point of transition, we had to cancel all existing sponsorships. We are not yet at the point where we are at parity in sponsorship income compared to before they were cancelled, however, we are fully covering direct project costs.

> Part of this ability to cover direct project costs has been to optimise how we are spending our money and utilising as much of our own internal (i.e. the team members' own) resources such as Ermo's servers for build capacity. We have also been developing our infrastructure code base to make it as flexible as possible in terms of adding new builders and scheduling builds efficiently based on individual builder resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Part of this ability to cover direct project costs can be attributed to how we are spending our money and how we are utilizing as much of our own internal resources (such as Ermo's machines) for build capacity. We have also been developing our infrastructure code base to make it as flexible as possible in terms of adding new builders and scheduling builds efficiently based on individual builder resources.
```

Part of this ability to cover direct project costs has been to optimise how we are spending our money and utilising as much of our own internal (i.e. the team members' own) resources such as Ermo's servers for build capacity. We have also been developing our infrastructure code base to make it as flexible as possible in terms of adding new builders and scheduling builds efficiently based on individual builder resources.

Our sponsorship goals in 2026 will be to continue growing our recurring sponsorships to help cover the backlog of historic project costs, and also to build up towards future hardware investments such as an x86-64-v4 capable builder.

If any hardware vendors are interested in sponsoring the project either financially or through hardware sponsorship, this would be warmly received.

Similarly, we are interested and open to CDN sponsorship as a way of strengthening our package delivery and ISO downloads. If you are in a position to help make this happen, we would love to hear from you.

<Kofi />

## Going into 2026

> For now, there is a continued focus on os-tooling and infrastructure code bases, somewhat at the expense of delivering a fully featured Linux distribution for end users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now, there is a deliberate, continued focus on our os-tooling and infrastructure code bases, somewhat at the expense of delivering a fully featured Linux distribution for end users.
```

As time goes on, the goal is for this balance to naturally shift as our code bases become more capable and featureful.

> Over time, and as natural consequence of this shift, we hope to be able to onboard more contributors to help us scale out the recipe repo, once the tooling is in a state where it conveniently allows for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over time, and as natural consequence of this shift, we hope to be able to onboard more contributors to help us scale out the recipe repo, once the tooling is in a state where it conveniently allows for this.

If any of this has piqued your interest and made you want to contribute, we invite you to join us over at our [Zulip chat platform](https://aerynos.zulipchat.com).

Hope to see you there!
```
